spotify-setup-guide.md, before:

# Setup Guide

Guide by [JoshLmao](https://github.com/JoshLmao)

### Part 1: Vercel & Deploy

Setup with a click of a button 😉

[![Deploy to Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/import/project?template=https://github.com/joshlmao/now-playing-profile)

1. Sign up or Sign in to use [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) for hosting the repo. You could use another service like [Heroku](https://heroku.com/) but this guide will use Vercel
2. Fork [natemoo-re's original repo](https://github.com/natemoo-re/natemoo-re), or [joshlmao's now-playing-profile repo](https://github.com/JoshLmao/now-playing-profile) which is just a skeleton repo that contains the Spotify Now Playing specific features
3. Go to your Vercel dashboard and select Import Project
4. Paste the Git url of your forked repo. For example "https://github.com/JoshLmao/now-playing-profile"
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/fkiH4QL.png" height="250">

5. Leave the remaining settings for now and click 'Deploy'

### Part 2: Configure Environment Vars

1. Navigate to [Spotify Dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/) and create a new app.
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/msl76HF.png" height="300">

2. Click, edit settings and add "https://localhost:3000/callback" to the "Redirect URIs" section
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/wm4IoDH.png" height="400">

3. Next, we need to do a [Authoration Code flow](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/general/guides/authorization-guide/#authorization-code-flow) auth request to retrieve a Refresh Token.

   - Replace "MY_CLIENT_ID" in the following url with your Client ID from your Spotify Dashboard and paste the url in your browser. Your client id and secret id can be found in your dashboard, pic below

   https://accounts.spotify.com/authorize?client_id=MY_CLIENT_ID&response_type=code&redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A3000%2Fcallback&scope=user-read-playback-state%20user-read-currently-playing
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/VzY5Uxv.png" >

   - Once done, you will get a blank page with a different url which is like "https://localhost:3000/callback?code=MY_CODE"

   - Next, navigate to [Base64Encode](https://www.base64encode.org/) and insert your client id and secret id **separated with a colon**. For example, "CLIENT_ID:SECRET_ID"

   - Then, insert your **base 64 encoded string** and **code** from the previous steps in the following command and press enter to run.

   curl -H "Authorization: Basic MY_BASE_64_STRING" -d grant_type=authorization_code -d code=MY_SPOTIFY_CODE -d redirect_uri=https%3A%2F%2Flocalhost%3A3000%2Fcallback https://accounts.spotify.com/api/token

   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/tnaCoqj.png">

   - Once done correctly, you will get JSON which contains your refresh token, shown in the blue box in the image above. Take out the refresh token, blocked out in green above, and save it somewhere

4. Navigate to your deployment on Vercel and click on Settings, then click on "Environment Variables"
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/kUEW5Tt.png" height=400 />

5. Insert the following Variable names and insert your values from the previous steps

```
Name: SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID
Value: MY_CLIENT_ID

Name: SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET
Value: MY_SECRET_ID

Name: SPOTIFY_REFRESH_TOKEN
Value: MY_REFRESH_TOKEN
```

6. Once done, navigate to one of your deployment url's and place "/now-playing" at the end. For example, "https://now-playing-joshlmao.vercel.app/now-playing"

7. Replace "MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL" in the following code with one of your deployment url's and insert it into any ReadMe.md

```
<a href="https://MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL/now-playing?open">
    <img src="https://MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL/now-playing" width="256" height="64" alt="Now Playing">`
</a>
```

That's it! Below is an example of what it should look like. If you have any problems, make sure to re-read the instructions and follow them precisely!

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/uxeiC8k.png">

Commit message:

Remove manual setup of refresh token (#13)
* adding node script to generate refresh token

spotify-setup-guide.md, after:

# Setup Guide

Guide by [JoshLmao](https://github.com/JoshLmao)

### Part 1: Vercel & Deploy

Setup with a click of a button 😉

[![Deploy to Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/import/project?template=https://github.com/joshlmao/now-playing-profile)

1. Sign up or Sign in to use [Vercel](https://vercel.com/) for hosting the repo. You could use another service like [Heroku](https://heroku.com/) but this guide will use Vercel
2. Fork [natemoo-re's original repo](https://github.com/natemoo-re/natemoo-re), or [joshlmao's now-playing-profile repo](https://github.com/JoshLmao/now-playing-profile) which is just a skeleton repo that contains the Spotify Now Playing specific features
3. Go to your Vercel dashboard and select Import Project
4. Paste the Git url of your forked repo. For example "https://github.com/JoshLmao/now-playing-profile"
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/fkiH4QL.png" height="250">

5. Leave the remaining settings for now and click 'Deploy'

### Part 2: Configure Environment Vars

1. Navigate to [Spotify Dashboard](https://developer.spotify.com/dashboard/) and create a new app.
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/msl76HF.png" height="300">

2. Click, edit settings and add "http://localhost:3000/callback" to the "Redirect URIs" section then save
   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/wm4IoDH.png" height="400">

3. Click 'SHOW CLIENT SECRET' under Client ID. Copy both Client ID and Client Secret and paste them into `.env` file in the root directory of this repository (create the file if it does not exist) like so:

```ini
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID=1234567890
SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET=1234567890
```

5. Next, we need to retrieve a Refresh Token through [Authoration Code flow](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/general/guides/authorization-guide/#authorization-code-flow).

There is a node script, `generateRefreshToken.js` to get this for you. Run the following commands:

```bash
npm install
node ./generateRefreshToken.js # You will be asked to login to your spotify account
```

6. Navigate to your deployment on Vercel and click on Settings, then click on "Environment Variables"

   <img src="https://i.imgur.com/kUEW5Tt.png" height=400 />

7. Insert the following Variable names and insert your values from the previous steps

```
Name: SPOTIFY_CLIENT_ID
Value: MY_CLIENT_ID

Name: SPOTIFY_CLIENT_SECRET
Value: MY_SECRET_ID

Name: SPOTIFY_REFRESH_TOKEN
Value: MY_REFRESH_TOKEN
```

8. Once done, navigate to one of your deployment url's and place "/now-playing" at the end. For example, "https://now-playing-joshlmao.vercel.app/now-playing"

9. Replace "MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL" in the following code with one of your deployment url's and insert it into any ReadMe.md

```
<a href="https://MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL/now-playing?open">
    <img src="https://MY_VERCEL_DEPLOYMENT_URL/now-playing" width="256" height="64" alt="Now Playing">`
</a>
```

That's it! Below is an example of what it should look like. If you have any problems, make sure to re-read the instructions and follow them precisely!

<img src="https://i.imgur.com/uxeiC8k.png">
